The Bestowal of Supreme Immortality
A Prayer to the Lineage of Mitrayogin’s White and Red Amitāyus
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

sishyi künkhyab ö migyurwé ku
Kāya of Changeless Light pervading all existence and peace,
yeshe ngaden longchö dzok kü dak
Master of the sambhogakāya complete with fivefold wisdom,
tukjé gang dul tulku tsepakmé
Nirmāṇakāya Amitāyus, who tames compassionately as required—
solwa deb so chimé ngödrub tsol
To you I pray: grant me the attainment of immortality!

dewé daknyi natsok gyumé ku
The embodiment of bliss appearing in various illusory forms,
sherab tongnyi nam ché lhamor shyeng
Arises as a goddess with the aspects of wisdom and emptiness,
pomé tsé yi yum chok tsenda lir
Supreme mother of non-transferring longevity, Caṇḍālī—
solwa deb so chimé ngödrub tsol
To you I pray: grant me the attainment of immortality!

chimé dorjé ku nyé rigpa dzin
Vidyādhara who attained a deathless vajra form,
zungjuk yeshe dangmé ökur shyeng
And adopted a pure light body of the wisdom of union,
drub gyé tsukgyen mitra dzaki la
Mitrayogin, crowning ornament of a hundred adepts—
solwa deb so chimé ngödrub tsol
To you I pray: grant me the attainment of immortality!

ösal long né trulpé dorjér shar
From the luminous expanse you arose as a vajra emanation,
drimé yeshe ö gyé ziji tro
Magnificently radiant as a hundred lights of stainless wisdom,
drowé münsel palden lama la
Glorious guru, who dispels the darkness in beings’ minds—
solwa deb so chimé ngödrub tsol
To you I pray: grant me the attainment of immortality!

tuk tik kabab dampé nyengyü dzin
Holders of the aural lineage of instructions from authoritative Heart-Essence transmissions,
né nga rigpé penchen chö gyatso
Great paṇḍita of the five sciences, Chökyi Gyatso,1
khordé chö kün natsok rangdrol la
Who self-liberated all the various dharmas of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa—
solwa deb so chimé ngödrub tsol
To you I pray: grant me the attainment of immortality!

shyi yi rik sé rim nyi naljor gyi
By awakening the ground potential and through the yoga of the two stages,
tsa lung tiklé nyikma kün sel shying
May I dispel all impurities in the channels, wind-energies and essences,
pomé dorjé sok gi kawa ten
Make firm the vital pillar of vajra-like non-transference,
tsepakmé gön sang sum nyur drub shok
And swiftly attain the three secrets of the Lord of Boundless Life!

By Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö. Siddhirastu!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2022.

Sources:
'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "mi tra'i tshe dkar dmar gyi brgyud 'debs dang rgyun khyer tshogs
mchod bcas/" in gsung 'bum/_'jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros/ (dbu med/). 8 vols. Gangtok:
Dzongsar Khyentse Labrang, 1981–1985 (BDRC W21813). Vol. 3: 207–208
'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "mi tra'i tshe dkar gyi brgyud 'debs 'chi med mchog sbyin/"
in 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung 'bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986.
Vol. 5: 289–290
'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "mi tra'i tshe dkar dmar gyi brgyud 'debs 'chi med mchog sbyin/"
In blo gros mtha' yas (ed.). rin chen gter mdzod chen mo/. New Delhi: Shechen Publications,
2007–2008. Vol. 49: 251–252

Version: 1.0-20220107
↑ Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö received the transmission for this practice from Katok Situ
Chökyi Gyatso (1880–1925).